<!-- Code generated by gomarkdoc. DO NOT EDIT -->

# assert

```go
import "github.com/radiospiel/simple-go/src/assert"
```

## Index

- [func CompareJSON\(t \*testing.T, actual, expected interface\{\}\)](<#CompareJSON>)
- [func Contains\(t testingT, container, element interface\{\}, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#Contains>)
- [func Equals\(t testingT, actual any, expected any, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#Equals>)
- [func Error\(t testingT, err error, expectedError string, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#Error>)
- [func False\(t testingT, condition bool, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#False>)
- [func Inspect\(v interface\{\}\) string](<#Inspect>)
- [func Nil\(t testingT, value interface\{\}, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#Nil>)
- [func NoError\(t testingT, err error, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#NoError>)
- [func NotContains\(t testingT, container, element interface\{\}, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#NotContains>)
- [func NotEquals\[T comparable\]\(t testingT, actual, expected T, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#NotEquals>)
- [func NotNil\(t testingT, value interface\{\}, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#NotNil>)
- [func Panics\(t testingT, fn func\(\), details ...interface\{\}\)](<#Panics>)
- [func True\(t testingT, condition bool, details ...interface\{\}\)](<#True>)
- [type JSONDiff](<#JSONDiff>)


<a name="CompareJSON"></a>
## func CompareJSON

```go
func CompareJSON(t *testing.T, actual, expected interface{})
```

CompareJSON compares two values via JSON serialization and reports differences by path

<a name="Contains"></a>
## func Contains

```go
func Contains(t testingT, container, element interface{}, details ...interface{})
```

Contains checks if a container contains the expected element. For strings: checks if the string contains the substring. For slices/arrays: checks if the slice contains the element. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="Equals"></a>
## func Equals

```go
func Equals(t testingT, actual any, expected any, details ...interface{})
```

Equals checks if actual equals expected and fails the test if not. Works with any comparable type \(strings, ints, bools, etc.\) details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="Error"></a>
## func Error

```go
func Error(t testingT, err error, expectedError string, details ...interface{})
```

Error checks if err is not nil and contains the expected error string. expectedError is a string that must be present in the error's String\(\) representation. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="False"></a>
## func False

```go
func False(t testingT, condition bool, details ...interface{})
```

False checks if the condition is false and fails if not. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="Inspect"></a>
## func Inspect

```go
func Inspect(v interface{}) string
```

Inspect formats a value for display in error messages

<a name="Nil"></a>
## func Nil

```go
func Nil(t testingT, value interface{}, details ...interface{})
```

Nil checks if the value is nil and fails if not. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="NoError"></a>
## func NoError

```go
func NoError(t testingT, err error, details ...interface{})
```

NoError checks if err is nil and fails if it's not. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="NotContains"></a>
## func NotContains

```go
func NotContains(t testingT, container, element interface{}, details ...interface{})
```

NotContains checks if a container does not contain the expected element. For strings: checks if the string does not contain the substring. For slices/arrays: checks if the slice does not contain the element. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="NotEquals"></a>
## func NotEquals

```go
func NotEquals[T comparable](t testingT, actual, expected T, details ...interface{})
```

NotEquals checks if actual does not equal expected and fails the test if they are equal. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="NotNil"></a>
## func NotNil

```go
func NotNil(t testingT, value interface{}, details ...interface{})
```

NotNil checks if the value is not nil and fails if it is nil. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="Panics"></a>
## func Panics

```go
func Panics(t testingT, fn func(), details ...interface{})
```

Panics calls fn and fails the test if it does not panic. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="True"></a>
## func True

```go
func True(t testingT, condition bool, details ...interface{})
```

True checks if the condition is true and fails if not. details are optional and can provide additional details about the failed assertion, using a format string and values.

<a name="JSONDiff"></a>
## type JSONDiff

JSONDiff represents a difference found during JSON comparison

```go
type JSONDiff struct {
    Path     string
    Expected interface{}
    Actual   interface{}
}
```

Generated by [gomarkdoc](<https://github.com/princjef/gomarkdoc>)
